In this lesson.
I want to show you a couple different ways that we can render a view component within another view component.
We saw one example in the previous lesson and we see it on lines two through four, but there are actually
several options available syntactically in view.
So I'm going to clear lines three and four here, which is my second and third usage of the main NAV
component.
And I'm going to keep the first one just so we have it to compare.
And what we see here, of course, is an opening tag and a closing tag.
The closing tag is the same, except it has the slash at the very beginning.
And the way this works is very much like an h html element.
Like a div works.
We have our opening tag, our closing tag, and sometimes we can put content in the middle and we'll
talk about why we might want to do that in view later on.
But whenever we have no content inside, we can have a single self-closing tag.
It's the exact same idea in HTML where we have something like an input tag where we do not need a complementary
closing tag.
We can just have a single tag and we put the slash at the very end.
So that syntax looks like this.
I'm going to write out Main NAV again, but instead of writing both an opening and closing tag, I'm
going to put the slash at the end here and then the bracket to close off this component.
So this syntax on line number three is equivalent to what we have on line number two.
And it should only be used if there is no actual internal content to place in between the opening and
closing tags.
So line number three is actually preferred because it's a little bit lighter and shorter, but it accomplishes
the exact same tactical result as line number two.
And I can prove this to you in our browser, we have now two instances of our main NAV component being
rendered onto the screen, but it doesn't end there.
There's a couple of more options available to us.
So earlier in the previous lesson, we talked about this component's property on our view configuration
object and we talked about the name that we defined here being available directly to use in our template
and indeed it is.
We have main NAV here, but Vue also takes this name right here and converts it into a couple different
casings that we can also use in our template.
One example is kabob case.
So what we have here is called the pass cow case, and that means the first letter of every word is
capitalized.
So the Amman main and the end.
And now in kabob case we turn the entire word lowercase and then between every two subsequent words
we put a dash or a hyphen.
So it looks like this if you can imagine lowercase the entire word.
So main nav.
And then instead of separating main and nav with capitalization, we separate it with a dash.
All right, I'm just going to write an opening tag, and as soon as I put my closing bracket here,
you'll see that this code will automatically populate my closing tag.
This syntax is also valid, right?
So we can't just choose whatever name we want here.
It is still dependent on what we defined in our components object.
However, A, you will take this and allow us to use this or equivalently the kabob case version of
whatever we have here.
So this will work as well as identical.
And as you might have guessed, if we have no content within our tags, we can similarly use a kabob
cased single self-closing tags so we can write main dash nav, all lowercase with a hyphen in between
words and close it off with a self-closing tag just like this.
And if I check back in my browser.
You're going to see that now.
We have four instances of the main NAF component being rendered.
And that's the beautiful part of view.
Each component is an independent, reusable chunk of the user interface, and we can render as many
of these components as we need.
As always, the most important thing is consistency, and what I'm going to be using throughout the
course is the kabob case version.
So I'm going to be using what we have on lines four and five, following again the rule of if we have
any content to place in between the tags, we're going to use both the opening and closing tags.
And if we have no content between the tags, we're just going to do this single version line number
five with a closing slash at the end.
So I'm going to remove the first three lines here and I'm just going to stick with May now save this.
So when I go back to my browser, I should see only one component being rendered.
There it is.
And the last thing I want to do to close this lesson off is to show you how this component is going
to appear in our view.
DevTools It's been a little while since we explored those, so I want to show you how that works.
So if you are in Chrome, the way you can access your devtools is you go to this little hamburger dot
icon on the very top, right?
And then you can go to more tools and developer tools.
And before you click this, whatever operating system you're on, I recommend taking a look at the shortcut
that you see here and memorizing it moving forward.
I'm not going to go through the menu.
I'm just going to use my keyboard shortcut to access my developer tools.
All right, so here's my developer tools.
And after we install the view dev tools, we should see a separate view tab right here.
And when we load this, it's going to load our view app and show us all of the components inside it.
And what we can actually do here is select this little bullseye icon and that will allow us to click
on a component on our page to select it.
And I of course, want to select this main nav component.
As I hover my mouse over it.
We can actually see the view component appear in that little box as well as its height width.
And if I click on this, it doesn't seem like it's at effect anything.
Let me try to.
Click components here and see if I can expand this.
Let me try even refreshing the page.
Sometimes there are errors.
There we go.
That's what I was looking for.
So now when I refresh the page, you'll notice we have this app component and we also have this little
collapse icon right here.
And if I click add this down, you're going to see all of the components that are nested within our
app component.
And when we use the word nested, I mean that it lives inside it.
So may now lives inside of our app component.
It does so because we rendered main now within the template for our app component.
So we call this relationship a parent child relationship.
May NAV is a child component being rendered within the app parent component, right.
We are rendering it within and in turn main NAV can render its own view components and those view components
can in turn render their own child components.
And the view dev tools will show us that entire heart hierarchy all the way down from the very top level
component where our app kicks things off to all of the smaller components that it renders along the
way.
And of course, each time we use a component, it'll show up here in our dev tool.
So if I go back to my.
These code and I let's say copy and paste this to two lines below and I go back to my dovetails.
You'll see now that we have the three main nav components appear in our DevTools and as I navigate and
hover my mouse over, each option will see the equivalent may now highlight in the actual html right
here.
So here I am.
And on the first one, here's the second one and here's the third one.
All right.
That's how we can select or preview any of our components that we're rendering as children.
And then later on in DevTools will be able to adjust their configuration and see the immediate impact
of our changes on the screen.
That's the advantage of the view dev tools.
It's like a debugging environment within our browser.
All right, let's go back to our component.
And the last thing I want to do to close this lesson off, of course, is return back to just one main
component with an app view.
Save this file, and that's all there is to cover in this lesson.
I will see you next time.